Data Comparison (NHANES) Tab
============================

--------------

The Data Comparison tool allows users to compare ambulatory activity
data collected during private studies with other public activity
datasets that were generated from ActiGraph devices. At the time of this
writing, data comparison cam be made against public dataset – the
2002-2003 and 2003-2004 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey
(NHANES) collected by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention.
More information about this dataset can be found at
http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhanes/about\_nhanes.htm.

The goal of the data comparison tool is to provide ActiLife users with
the ability to objectively compare their own actigraphy data with that
of national or world-wide standards in an effort to understand
correlations among the datasets. As more datasets become available,
ActiLife will continue to expand this offering, eventually providing
various disease research study information and chronic illness baseline
data.

LOADING DATASETS FOR COMPARISON
-------------------------------

As datasets are added to the Wear Time Validation and Data Scoring
tools, they are automatically loaded into the Data Comparison tool. To
view these datasets (or to load more), click the “Load/Edit Subjects…”
button at the top of the Data Comparison grid. A form similar to the one
shown in Figure 68 will appear. Rows highlighted in red indicate that
more metadata information is required in order to fully compare this
user to the other users in the baselines database(s). In the example
shown in Figure 68, the user shown in red will be compared on all
parameters except for weight. That is, three females and three males
will appear in the gender comparison, but only five users will be
compared in the weight category.

.. figure:: /assets/img/DataComparisonSubjectForm.png
   :alt: 

FIGURE 68 – DATA COMPARISON SUBJECT FORM

Once all edits are complete, click “Save and Close” from the subject
form.

SELECTING NHANES COMPARISONS
----------------------------

The NHANES Data Filter allows the user to set comparison parameters. To
compare the user dataset to only males in the NHANES data population,
select “Male” from the Gender dropdown. To set a custom age range for
comparison, choose “Custom” from the Age dropdown and type in a custom
age range to compare against. Use this process for all of the filter
parameters until the desired comparisons are set. To apply the same
filter parameters to the user dataset, check the box “Apply Filter to
Your AGD Files”. This will force ActiLife to use only those datasets
that meet the filter qualifications from both the NHANES data and the
user’s local data.

.. figure:: /assets/img/DataComparisonFilter.png
   :alt: 

FIGURE 69 - NHANES AND SUBJECT DATA FILTER

The results of the filter will be summarized below the Data Filter
section as shown in Figure 70.

.. figure:: /assets/img/DataComparisonFilterResults.png
   :alt: 

FIGURE 70 - FILTER RESULTS

Click “Calculate” to run the comparison. Once the calculation is
complete, the resultant graphs will appear on the right-hand side. Use
the “Select Graphs” options to turn specific graphs on or off.
Double-click on any graph to make it larger. These graphs show
comparison between the user’s data and the NHANES data set. Double click
the graph again to return to the normal view.

.. figure:: /assets/img/DataComparisonGraph.png
   :alt: 

FIGURE 71 - ENLARGED AGE COMPARISON GRAPH

EXPORTING DATA COMPARISON RESULTS
---------------------------------

To export the graphical results of the comparisons, click the “Export”
button in the lower right-hand corner of the Data Comparison tool.
Select a location and a file name and click “Save.” This will generate a
printable/shareable PDF document of the Data Comparison tool’s graphic
results.
