===============
Getting Started
===============

Downloading and Installing
==========================

Download ActiLife 6 from `http://www.theactigraph.com/actilife <http://www.theactigraph.com/actilife>`_  to a known
location. Double-click the icon to start the installer. After running
the ActiLife6 installer, follow the installation instructions in the
on-screen prompts.

.. figure:: /img/ActiLifeSetupIcon.png
  :alt: ActiLife Setup Icon

  Figure 1 - ActiLife 6 Setup Icon


  .. note:: Please be sure to remove any ActiGraph devices that you have connected to your computer during installation. Failure to do so could result in a faulty installation of your ActiLife software.

  .. note:: Older versions of ActiLife (4 and 5) will be removed whenever
    ActiLife 6 is installed

After installing ActiLife, an icon similar to the one shown here will
appear on your desktop. Double click the icon to start ActiLife 6.

.. figure:: /img/ActiLifeDesktopShortcut.png
  :alt: ActiLife 6 Desktop Shortcut

  Figure 2 – ActiLife 6 Desktop Shortcut

Licensing
=========

ActiLife software is a licensed program and requires users to obtain a
product key before the software can be activated. If you have not
purchased an ActiLife license, you may do so by visiting the ActiGraph
store at `http://www.theactigraph.com/store <http://www.theactigraph.com/store>`_ . If
you have misplaced your product key, contact ActiGraph sales support at
`support@theactigraph.com <support@theactigraph.com>`_  in order to
proceed. Once ActiLife 6 has been purchased or upgraded from a previous
version, users are entitled to free updates for 12 months. After that
period, an optional maintenance plan may be purchased. **It is highly
recommended that users purchase the maintenance plan in order to
guarantee access to the newest updates, features, and bug fixes.**   

Activation Over the Internet
============================

The first time the program is launched,
users will be presented with a screen similar to that shown in Figure 3.
If you have already received a product key for your ActiLife Pro or
ActiLife Lite software, type that product key in the box provided. If
the license formatting is correct, a green check mark will appear to the
right of the license box. Click “Activate”. ActiLife will connect to
ActiGraph’s license server to confirm that the product key is correct
and that it has indeed been purchased or upgraded. After activation, a
screen similar to the one shown in Figure 4 will be displayed. This
screen summarizes the product type and the number of activations used
and available, as well as the name and contact information of the person
to whom the license is registered. **Name, Email, and Organization
fields must be populated in order to continue**. This activation process
is required for each computer on which ActiLife is running.

.. figure:: /img/Activation.png
  :alt: ActiLife Activation Screen

  Figure 3 – ActiLife Activation Screen

.. figure:: /img/RegistrationConfirmation.png
  :alt: ActiLife Registration Confirmation

  Figure 4 – ActiLife Registration Confirmation

Activation Without an Internet Connection
=========================================

For users without an internet connection, ActiLife can be activated by
contacting our technical support staff either via email
(`support@theactigraph.com <support@theactigraph.com>`__) or by phone
(1-877-497-6996 option 1). Similar to the Internet activation, enter the
ActiLife product key in the first box that appears after launching the
program. After clicking “Continue,” a screen similar to Figure 5 will
appear. Provide the 24-character product key to ActiGraph customer
service representative. After validating the product key, the
representative will provide a confirmation code. Type or copy/paste the
confirmation code into the box provided. Click ‘Next’ to activate
ActiLife.

.. figure:: /img/OfflineActivation.png
  :alt: Non-Internet Activation

  Figure 5 – Non-Internet Activation

ActiLife New Feature Overview
=============================

Each release (update) of ActiLife provides users with a new feature
overview. This screen (or similar) will appear immediately after loading
ActiLife 6 for the first time. Note that this screen will change with
each release to quickly illustrate the new features.

.. figure:: /img/WelcomeScreen.png
  :alt: ActiLife Welcome Screen

  Figure 6 – ActiLife Welcome Screen

To view this welcome screen again at any time, select the ‘Help’ tab in
the menu bar and then select ‘ActiLife Tour’ as shown in Figure 7.

.. figure:: /img/RunWelcomeTour.png
  :alt: Run Tour From Help Menu

  Figure 7 – Run Tour From Help Menu

ActiLife Data Formats
=====================

ActiLife stores and uses data from native \*.agd files which are
produced during the download or export process for all devices. These
files are in SQLite Format, which is essentially a small database.
ActiLife can import data from any legacy file formats by selecting
“File->Import/Export” and selecting the appropriate action from the menu
(see the ActiLife Main Menu discussion section in this manual). Multiple
files can be imported simultaneously.